API endpoint
TechTarget Contributor
By
TechTarget Contributor

What is an API endpoint?
An API endpoint is a point at which an API -- the code that allows two software programs
to communicate with each other -- connects with the software program. APIs work by sending
requests for information from a web application or web server and receiving a response.

In other words, API endpoints are the specific digital location where requests for information
 are sent by one program to retrieve the digital resource that exists there. Endpoints specify
  where APIs can access resources and help guarantee the proper functioning of the incorporated
  software. An API's performance depends on its capacity to successfully communicate with
  API endpoints.

Software programs typically have multiple API endpoints. For example, Instagram's endpoints
include one that allows businesses and creators to measure media and profile interactions;
 one that allows them to moderate comments and their replies; and a third that allows
  them to discover hashtagged media.

How API endpoints work
Systems that communicate through APIs are integrated systems. One side sends the information
 to the API and is called the server. The other side, the client, makes the requests and
 manipulates the API. The server side that provides the requested information, or resources,
  is the API endpoint.

For an effective request to be processed by the endpoint, the client must provide a uniform
 resource locator (URL), a method, a list of headers and a body.

The headers provide metadata about a request and the body holds the data sent by the client
 to the server.

Endpoints work in tandem with API methods. Methods are permitted requests that can be made,
such as GET, DELETE, PATCH or POST. Methods -- often called verbs in communications syntax --
are often placed just before the specified endpoint in a full URL.

Examples of API endpoints
The code used in placing a request for a specific statistics page on the NBA's web site might read:

GET https://stats.nba.com/stats/allstarballotpredictor

In this example GET is the method while the endpoint is the specific portion of the web
address noted as /stats/allstarballotpredictor. If, on the other hand, an application is
requesting information from Amazon's DynamoDB service, its request may
read https://dynamodb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com.

Consider the Instagram example further: If a Facebook developer wanted to request
metrics on an Instagram Business or Creator Account, they could use the Instagram Graph API to query the Instagram metrics endpoint. The request would look something like this:

GET graph.facebook.com/17841405822304914/insights

?metric=impressions,reach,profile_views
   &period=day
